---
description: Describe when these instructions should be loaded by the agent based on task context
# applyTo: 'Describe when these instructions should be loaded by the agent based on task context' # when provided, instructions will automatically be added to the request context when the pattern matches an attached file
---

<!-- Tip: Use /create-instructions in chat to generate content with agent assistance -->

Quasar Engine is a modern game engine built on Vulkan and C. Performance and stability are most important. Codebase should be modular, readable and professional. Causility is the UI library i have created, and this will provide windoing and UI for the engine. Engine should be cross platform, and support Windows, Linux and MacOS. Code must be memory safe, and should not have any memory leaks. All API should be well documented with docstrings, and API should not expect user to cleanup memory anywhere. The API will be vulkan style, where user will create objects with a create function, and destroy them with a destroy function. The engine should handle all memory management internally, and user should not have to worry about it. Everything in the engine should be extensible and modular, even the render pipeline. Design with plugin system in mind, every feature will be an plugin. I do not want exxcess markdown documents, the public API should be self explanatory. Do not comment litter the codebase. You can make changes in the causality library as well, as we are also developing that as a UI library in parallel. All refactors should be robust. clean and no dead code or unused code, do not leave hacks and workarounds in the codebase. refactors should not be done half baked, refactor as much related things as needed so no backward compatibility issues and layers are even needed. Style in Editor UI should be done in CSS. plan code and api design carefully. Do no create hard dependencies in causality for the engine. check all related code and refactor as needed whenever implementing feature or refactoring. If you need to change any API, do it throughly and robustly throughout the codebase. Must follow existing code standards and patterns. Do not hardcode values. Library code should not be made for specific use case, it should be generic, logical and reusable. 